so i'm joined by a very very special
guest i'm joined by will aiken um from
vidyard now i first came across will
which is the subject that we're talking
about today which is these fantastic
videos that he does on linkedin and now
furtherly on tick tock as well so we
wanted to give us a brief introduction
of who you are and who you work for
yeah so thanks so much for the intro um
i work for vidya technically but we
actually start a media brand called
sales feed media
where we create videos content for sales
people both humorous and educational to
help them better basically have a better
time in sales
but as because i feel under video they
often do a lot of speaking engagements
get involved in what the training
sessions there
and prior to this i was a software
account executive uh who who was very
passionate about video so it was a it
was how they say a no-brainer to jump
across to vidyard yeah well you're
pretty ubiquitous right i've seen your
work everywhere uh it's on you're on a
lot of social platforms and uh you use
video really really well i'm going into
a little secret right when i first
started selling um youtube didn't exist
so the idea and the concept of someone
being able to record themselves doing a
video and put it out there for everyone
to see sometimes it's hard for people to
work backwards to think that there was a
world that was like that right so so
it's really interesting for me to see
the evolution of video i guess a really
good place to start now that it is so
ubiquitous and it's obviously been seen
as being a really effective way of
getting your message across getting your
value proposition across but more
importantly engaging prospects what what
very best people doing at the moment
when it comes to video out video
outreach not just in terms of you but
also what you've noticed as part of
video as well
yeah
so i probably separate this into three
buckets um of of how people are doing
video well the first one
is very much so similar to any kind of
ever prospecting email linkedin cold
call outreach but you're doing a five
video
so that's problem centric videos
that highlight a problem for the
customer but take it into a video format
just as one extra way to reach the
customer in a way or a channel that
stands out so what that might look like
is i send you a video i'm going to whack
that in an email
the first challenge you have with email
with video is you got to try and get
someone to click on the video so i'm
going to create a thumbnail ideally
on your website on your linkedin profile
this is my process when i do it at least
and then i'm going to kind of
tease towards the video in the body of
the email but not give away what it's
all about because i don't want to
spill the candy at the front door so
then in that video i'm going to start
similar like an email the best emails i
reckon around 100 words how long does
100 words take to read out loud around
40 seconds so that's where i'm aiming 30
to 40 seconds i'm gonna come in and say
hey i noticed this about your company
your profile your content you recently
did often when i see that it might
result in this problem for our customers
we've helped in xyz
is this relevant to you drop me a
response to the uh
the email that i sent you and let me
know if it makes sense to chat
so that's a very basic way to just take
what you're doing in email and bring it
to video as a way to stand out to
customers and that gets great responses
interesting yeah it's really interesting
because um
a lot of the customers i work with and
even the ics that i work with they say
that the response rates are really good
with video
even if they're bad responses of someone
turning around and saying hey great
video but no interest to me i guess what
i'm going to understand is you mentioned
this a couple of times and it really
piqued my interest this idea around
bringing the problem right
and so so talk to me about some of the
creative ways that people are bringing
that problem to the prospect at the
moment so i mean
when it comes to the problem that comes
down to how you're doing your research
and how you're looking for symptoms or
signs that that customer might have a
challenge that you can solve so i'm
going to be looking at all the obvious
places on their website are they hiring
what are they posting about in their
content which is relevant or can be tied
to the challenge or problems that my
solution solves normally there's you
know between one and five big problems
that we know that customers are having
and it bring that's the forefront means
that sure what i see a lot of people do
is they create a great video but then
the person comes back and says this is
amazing
video let's have a meeting and then they
get on the meeting and then they find
out that that person's not even facing
the challenge or problem they solve
which to be honest you shouldn't even
book the meeting in the first place it's
a way to qualify by talking about the
problem in your video
if that's relevant to the prospect they
put their hand up that sets you up for a
great cycle beyond that or a great
meeting booked for your team which is
likely going to be qualified because you
led with that challenger problem that
you solved right so um that's really
interesting i've seen that i've seen two
types of organizational approaches to
this right there's the organizations
that turn around and go right well let's
let's make video an organizational
capability right so the marketing
function of working closely with the
sales organization
the you know the the the the hr team or
the other procurement team are buying
hoodies and and branded gear and stuff
to make the video really uh really you
know impactful and get the brand across
and even to the point where some product
marketing teams are working with the
sales people to actually make the videos
look better as well but then there's the
other organizations that go well let's
just hand this off to the the ics leave
them in control of their brand or use
their personal brand to get across the
messaging
which one do you think is more effective
or what the pros and cons of both of
those approaches
yeah
ah well there's two sides of it um i i
personally prefer the first one enabling
your sellers to send good videos
video isn't a natural thing to do for a
lot of people people don't feel natural
jumping on video recording themselves
and then sending them to a prospect
oftentimes they'll actually repeat that
process several times i mean we can get
to that a little bit later is a big
mistake people make but if you enable
your team to do it give them some
templates
show them what that could what good
looks like maybe even give a couple of
examples of successful videos
and leave from the front and then give
them some fun things like like some
branded gear i love swag so get that on
them and that's going to make that video
stand out in a couple of other ways as
well even if the prospect doesn't take
action on that that's one more touch
point where you've built familiarity
with you and your brand on your prospect
yeah makes sense and obviously with me
having spent the last 15 years in the
neighborhood makes sense to me as well
right like create it and turn it into an
organizational capability well
the other thing that i find really
interesting about this is that um i've
seen some really creative things that
people are doing on video right so i
mean i i love it right i get i receive
them all the time and i can tell you
something for free i watch all of them i
don't read every uh email that i get
sent i certainly don't listen to every
voice note that i get sent but every
video i watch and i've seen some really
creative stuff that people are doing to
either personalize it or make themselves
really stand out in terms in terms of
video or even in your experience of when
you've been sending outbound emails what
are the kind of more extreme and
interesting approaches that people have
had
yeah so that's that's a really good
point video is a way to get a such a
impactful creative message across and
there's such great examples of this i've
seen people do very clever editing um
there's actually a whole list of
examples on videos website like really
creative outreach i've seen someone
reach out to the company um chili piper
um that that symbol is a chili and they
drank a whole bottle of chili sauce now
you can't do that for every prospect
frankly it wouldn't be healthy but that
could be if you've got a target account
you know they're slap bam in the middle
of your icp you know that you can help
them maybe you're you're they're one of
your named accounts then doing some
really creative matching like that can
can stand out another one i've seen this
guy said um this sdr used to work with
he um
he grabbed the uh
he said look if you book a meet with me
i'll drink this raw egg and he cracked
her egg into a cup and then he drank the
egg anyway he said look now you have to
book a meet with me which is which is
pretty funny it gets the smirk across
anyway and just showing your personality
like that it really
human human humanized i'd
it it makes it more personal it makes
you not look like a robot um another one
is like you can you can do loads of
things to create it if you're a musical
person you can do a little strum on a
ukulele if you're someone who's a big
fan of star wars like myself you can
start the lightsaber hope that the
person gets the reference and maybe
start for funny star wars pun um there
there are a lot of different things
props uh creative outlets you can bring
into video that that you're going to
struggle to do via cold call email or
any other channel for that matter do you
think video will replace email
eventually i mean the email boxes now
have just become basically a graveyard
of cold outreach right do you believe
that video will replace it at some point
i think it become more and more
prevalent we did some research on this
when you watch a video and we we found
out that we basically the video
basically did some neuroscience studies
where they sent like 100 emails 100
videos to prospects
and not only did more prospects remember
the videos that they got sent they
remembered specific details throughout
the video more like the person's name
what their offering was um
i would say
it's i don't think anything's gonna
replace email but it's a great way to do
better than that and i think it's gonna
it's an area that's gonna grow a lot
um even even we've seen it in internally
in companies
a bit of asynchronous messaging that
happens there
slack messages and emails they just get
lost in the mix and there's too many of
them and then the other side of things
is people are meeting loads and those
means aren't productive so now people
are replacing that internally with
videos so yeah i think there is there is
going to be a lot more of that um and i
think prospecting will like behind that
slightly but as people do that more
they're going to get more comfortable
with video and then i would see it
increasing prospecting some more as well
yeah i mean it's incredible how quickly
you can get across key information in
such a short period of time but also
make it impactful at the same time so
we've spoken a lot about what works
let's go through what doesn't work what
what are the mistakes that salespeople
make or sdrs make what a's make when it
comes to cold outreach using video
yeah
so there are a few mistakes they make
when when making the videos which i
think we'll get to in a bit but the
actual videos themselves some of the big
mistakes i i see is making them too long
um no one
i said 30 to 40 seconds earlier anything
over a minute people just don't have
time for it um so and and you can see
how long the video is before you can
click on it so like if you send someone
a minute long video they're gonna either
click on it uh open it see it's a minute
long i've got time for this i'm busy um
some people send like two three minute
uh videos the other side of things is
the same mistakes they're making cold
calls and emails they pitch slap they
talk about themselves too much they get
on there and they're like i'm doing a
video so i may as well give my prospect
a mini demo
like
don't don't show me something until i
that's probably not going to be relevant
to 90 of people you're reaching out to
and they don't they if they wanted a
demo they would have requested one right
so a lot of people think that their
product product's gonna sell itself they
just show it to enough people i don't
think that's an effective strategy and
people attempt to do that by video
because it's very demo-esque it's very
easy to do that the other mistakes i see
um
the one of the biggest challenges of
video is is the fact that it's you're
sending a link to someone
uh if you do that in your first step
there is a chance that you could end up
in that spam
videos no matter how good the video is
it's getting not gonna get seen so i
prefer myself to use video as a
follow-up sequence to try and generate a
response so typically i'm going to call
call someone and leave them a voicemail
saying hey my name's will i'm going to
send you an email i'm going to send them
an email saying this is why i'm reaching
out to you specifically relevant
information problem statement is this of
interest or relevant to you
and then if they don't respond to that
email that can be a great spot to then
layer in a video and because that first
email didn't have any links in it it's
most likely past the spam filter that
means the second touch is now going to
go into their inbox as well and that's
where video can really shine
i've also seen a bit of a rise of people
sending
if this can work for sure it can be an
effective strategy to do video at scale
but they basically send the same video
to like 100 prospects
um now there were some ways you could
make this work i've i had success with
uh
selling to a very niche industry
landscaping companies and my video was
like
landscaping
and then i was like hey look i'm
reaching out because we work with this
landscaping company it was a big logo in
that space
um we helped them invest this and this
wanted to see if those problems are
relevant to you that's a good video but
if i did the demo thing or it was more
broad than that
then sending that to 100 prospects it's
going to be very clear it's and that
defeats the whole purpose and the whole
all the benefits of video are lost by
doing that in a way
so um that that's almost mass marketing
in a way which as we know can get a bit
spammy and uh
you know it's not as effective as what i
mentioned before with the relevant point
that you've observed yeah it removes the
personalization right i mean some of the
some of the ways that businesses
overcome that is when they're doing more
account based outreach so if they're
holding pwc as an example you could use
a similar video for like six or seven
eight different accounts it brings me on
to a really interesting point though
right which is
if you think about it like
when you when you're
making a cold call you can do 10 seconds
of research pick up the phone and then
call the customer if you don't get
through you don't get through but one of
the kind of pushbacks we hear a lot is
well it takes a lot of time to make a
video for only it to not be watched or
to get no response what that's obviously
one element what are the common hurdles
that get in the way of people doing
video outreach not necessarily well but
even just attempting to do it
yeah
i'd say there's three big ones
you mentioned it there people think it
takes a lot of time which it doesn't
have to
um and this will lead to the second
problem
it's important to make a good video
probably takes about the same time as it
does to write a good email like i
mentioned earlier 100 words you read
that out loud and boom
the the issue is
you do that uh you know if you have if
you if you're a perfectionist and you're
holding yourself this high standard
that's not even human but you're gonna
do it and then and then and you're gonna
re-record that video ten times so you
can nail it well then you spend 10
minutes sending one video and that is
just
that's no good
so
the biggest mistake i see is people just
doing that and therefore they're taking
way too long to send the videos out it's
not it's no longer efficient and even
though you're going at higher response
rates do that
it's it's going to take you way more
time and therefore you're better off
maybe sending emails or making cold
calls
now
and and also when that prospect gets
that video and you've rehearsed it 10
times and it's really scripted it's
going to lose all of its magic and human
human element to it what one thing yeah
one thing i see at least
related to that because people spend
tons of time sending out their first few
videos what they end up doing is feeling
like they've done a ton of work and
they've sent five videos maybe in two
hours
and they're like wow i i gave a really
good shot those are great videos and
then they don't get responded to
they then go video doesn't work
so they give up too soon you've got to
get some repetitions in there imagine me
going hey i made five cold calls didn't
work cold calling is dead
i sent five emails to prospects that
none of them responded emailing doesn't
work how outrageous would that be people
do that with video all the time because
they spend so long making the video they
think it's some silver bullet which
there is none in sales and they're like
well video didn't work i sent five
videos and because they spent so long
making those videos it feels like they
did more when really five repetitions of
anything in your entire life is not
enough to figure out if you're gonna get
good at it so you've got to do more than
that it's it's it's better it's more
personalized but you've still got to mix
that with some volume
sending one video isn't going to be
enough sending five videos isn't going
to be enough do it a lot get good at it
stop caring about every little mistake
you made there are some now some
features that you can do for nvidia for
example you can trim out those mistakes
just to make it a little bit more
efficient even then if you start over a
couple of words that's not the end of
the world it's only human you're going
to do that on a meeting with someone
i've done it a couple of times in this
recording it's okay
that's that's that's human and if you if
you get too picky about that you're
gonna spend not send
you're not gonna send many videos see i
just did it there
and therefore you're gonna feel like you
did a ton of work for no results well
i think i think that's the answer there
so let's think about it like this right
if you're a if you're a a new rep who's
just become an sdr
and you want to start making videos to
send out to prospects what's the process
that you would now go through having
learned what you've learned about video
to start creating some really good video
content and cadences to ultimately book
more demos and win more business
great question
so
what i'm first going to do is i'm going
to make some minor improvements to the
way i look and sound
nothing crazy you'd have to go buy a
bunch of equipment but i'm going to make
sure i look good and i'm going to be
well understood in those videos so what
that means is making sure i've not got
light behind me got them lit from the
front so they can see my beautiful face
the laptop's going to be at eye level
kind of so that it looks like i'm
talking to them rather than down at them
uh just a couple of small improvements
like that don't need to go crazy there's
lots of resources on how to look good on
camera but you don't need to go buy
something like what i'm using here for
example don't stress about that but just
make sure you look good in these videos
and then i'm going to block some time
i'm going to dedicate an hour to just
sending videos and what that's going to
look like is the same process i go
through when i send emails find a
prospect find something relevant on
there about them about them or their
company should i say maybe they're
hiring and then i'm going to record a
video i'm going to aim for 30 40 seconds
i know it's not going to be perfect
first i'm going to say hey prospect
spotted this about you
uh
often when i hear that that's the
challenge i get is this relevant to you
all i'm gonna grab that and get that
thumbnail and i'm gonna start that video
should i say on their linkedin profile
this is a great way to get clicks
start it on their linkedin profile
because they won't be able to resist
clicking on that thumbnail once they see
it's just about them or their company
and then i copy that into the email i'm
going to give a catchy subject line like
video for you even that works really
well
um or even
job openings because maybe that's what
the video was the relevant point i made
in the video and i'm going to shoot it
off i'm going to do that and it aims to
try and do that 20 times in an hour
those repetitions are going to mean that
your 20th video is probably going to be
eight times as good as your first video
but rather than trying to do the first
video 20 times i sent 20 videos and
you're just gonna get better free
repetitions so give that a shot
see how the the prospects respond to it
learn a little bit i'd also be checking
out some resources and examples there's
tons of video people on linkedin talk
about a lot
uh and then trying to get inspiration
from those look for good examples to to
base yourself off and then just go ahead
and do it
don't be too self-critical
your email isn't perfect your cochlear
opener probably isn't perfect yet your
videos aren't going to be perfect you're
going to get better with time and
repetition super practical that's
awesome that's awesome i like to
describe it as like dancing at a wedding
right no one likes getting up there but
when you're out there it's actually
quite fun so
now this has been really really cool
it's been really really cool thank you
so much for your super practical tips
and advice um now obviously you've got a
really big following on linkedin really
big following on tick tock and obviously
you're part of the sales feed as well so
why don't you tell us where we can find
you and saw speed yeah best place to
find me is is linkedin and you may as
you mentioned there tick tock uh so will
aitkin on on all platforms you'll find
me um and then definitely check out
sales feed as well it's a big big spot
where we're showing a lot of actionable
video tips as well we're adding more and
more into that we even just released a
video in fact on how to uh optimize your
setup to look great on video so that
could be a great place to start before
you start creating videos agree you
should definitely check it out i follow
it it's really really good fun and also
some super practical stuff in there as
well well thank you very much you've
been amazing as always it's been great
to see you and may the fourth be with
you